with less than a day now before an
extended truce deal between Israel and
Hamas militants Runs Out Qatari
mediators are trying to get negotiators
from both sides to agree to a more
lasting ceasefire Arrangement meanwhile
a new group of 12 Israeli hostages was
released by Hamas on
Tuesday another night of Israel and
hamas's Truce brought another series of
homecomings two Tha Nationals and 10
Israelis made up the fifth group of
hostages to be freed among them a mother
her teenage daughter and their family
dog
Balor cradled by her owner every step of
the journey back to
Israel young people were welcomed home
in the occupied West Bank too with 30
Palestinians returned to loved ones
after being released from Israeli
prisons it's Indescribable freedom is
the most beautiful feeling in the world
from the moment a prisoner is deprived
of their freedom they await the day they
will regain it although this Freedom
today is partial and incomplete it will
be complete when our homeland is
liberated and all of our prisoners are
free hope of freeing more prisoners and
more hostages hinges on extending the
current poon fighting between Israel and
Hamas which is deemed a terrorist group
by the European Union and the United
States around 160 hostages are still
being held in Gaza and thousands of
Palestinians are detained in Israeli
prisons only a truce could lead to the
release of people held in captivity and
avoid further Regional
escalation this truth must turn into a
permanent
ceasefire Israel and Hamas accused each
other of fighting flareups on Tuesday
mediator Qatar said the breaches did not
harm the agreement Qatar is again
facilitating talks around extending the
fragile truce which is now in its last
day and that truce has been in place for
six days I asked our correspondent Ben
fulin injured Jerusalem if there are any
indications that the ceasefire could be
extended well Gart Egyptian officials
are saying it would be highly likely and
is highly likely that we'll receive some
sort of announcement as to the extension
today uh there's been a lot of back and
forth uh high level talks uh in the
region overnight and this morning and
all day uh otherwise this deal will
expire as you said in less than a day a
former US ambassador to Israel wrote
interesting L enough that the pressure
and incentives for both sides to keep
trading these hostages for Palestinian
prisoners is much stronger than the
incentive to go back to war of course
Israel's ultimate goal is to dismantle
Hamas but that's becoming less and less
likely analysts saying that the
destruction in the north hasn't been
enough uh that uh to uh break this uh
militant group that it's still intact
it's still able to uh carry out complex
negotiations keep the fire uh going
among various militant groups it's not
the only one operating in Gaza and
holding these hostages and also the
Smooth release of these hostages G now
despite the truths the Israeli Army has
now announced that a so-called
anti-terror operation is underway in
Janine in the West Bank what more can
you tell us about
that Palestinian Health officials have
reported the deaths of an 8-year-old and
15-year-old from shots fired by Israeli
troops uh the Israeli military is
investigating that it had previously
announced that it had launched this
operation in Denine in the uh Northern
West Bank considered a stronghold of
Palestinian militants we've seen videos
overnight in this morning of bulldozers
destroying electricity and
infrastructure uh of these two boys uh
according to these videos that were
released being shot and uh also scuffles
and intense fighting
um it's hasn't yet been uh confirmed but
we've also heard reports of hospitals
being surrounded and cut off ambulances
being uh held back from delivering
patients and more deaths resulting uh
there've been uh raids throughout the
West Bank almost every day of this war
with more than 200 Palestinians killed
in confrontations with
troops the's Ben fulan there reporting
from Jerusalem thank you
Ben now Israel has made clear that the
current truce in Gaza is temporary and
attention is turning to its military's
next move during a trip to Gaza to the
Gaza Strip on Sunday prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu vowed to continue his
mission until achieving Victory his
visit to the strip was the first by
Israeli Premier since 2005 it followed
statements by the Israel Defense Force
suggesting that the next part of their
offensive could include a ground
operation in southern
Gaza Israeli troops are currently
concentrated in the north where they
have surrounded Gaza City a push into
the South could follow cramming gaza's
displaced population into an even
smaller
space the bombings have stopped but the
search for safety hasn't these displaced
palestin Ians are taking advantage of
the PO and fighting to walk south from
Central Gaza but safety isn't guaranteed
there
either a day before the truce took
effect a deadly air strike hit can yunas
sending residents fleeing in panic it
wasn't the first time Gaza South was hit
and Israel has alluded that it may
expand its ground operation to this part
of the
territory we are determined to continue
advancing this will happen wherever
Hamas is and Hamas is also in southern
Gaza on November 16th the Israeli
military distributed leaflets to
residents of K Yunis warning them to
move out of the line of fire a woman
shows them on a mobile
phone in the beginning they drop
leaflets telling people in the north to
leave and go to the safe places in the
South but the occupation can't be
trusted today they're telling the people
in the South to evacuate and go to other
places the UN estimates that some 1.7
million people have been displaced by
the fighting that's about 80% of gaza's
population the foreign minister of the
Palestinian Authority says that when the
truce ends deaths could double
the concentration of the Palestinian
population has
doubled all are concentrated in the
south of the Gaza STP two million of
them in half of the territory of the
Gaza
STP any Israel
attack instead of killing one child
we'll kill
two in canun and elsewhere the question
on many people's lips is where should we
go
now Israel has in the past suggested
here in October officials spoke about
the establishment of a safe Zone in
maazi a town in a Sandy area on the
Mediterranean Coast that's just a few
square kilometers in size a recipe for
disaster says the World Health
Organization attempting to cram so many
people into such a small area with such
little infrastructure or services will
significantly increase risks to health
for people who are already on the
brink and maazi is already stretched
these pictures show a un shelter in the
town on November
19th families cramming into ramshackle
tents to guard against the heavy
rain we thought there'd be safety in
moazi but there's no safety
if Israel's next step is indeed to go
south and maazi is no option it's
unclear where else gaza's displaced
civilians can
go neighboring Egypt has so far refused
to take large amounts of people
in now people living in Gaza have been
trying to make the most of the short
truce between Israel and the militant
group Hamas that includes a youth group
that's been holding activities to
entertain displaced children and help
take their minds of the
war enjoying a singalong and some rest
bite from a war that's left these
children
displaced they've been brought together
by a Palestinian youth group at a school
in K Unis a city in the south of the
Gaza
Strip we are so happy we were very
scared because of the war as soon as the
organizers arrived we all run towards
them they played some songs for us and
we danced and sank and played games we
had so much fun
today the majority of the children
suffer from the fear of bombings and the
war and our role here is to ensure that
they deserve to be happy just like
children all around the
world they also have the right to
express themselves during this
destruction they deserve to play
and be
happy but outside the school there's no
escaping the
destruction one of the only ways to
travel now is by Donkey and cart as
people use the truce between Israel and
Hamas to see what's left of their
lives unfortunately our houses were
destroyed struck by air strikes the
situation is unfortunate life is so hard
we hope to God that life will get back
to what it was before the war we hope
there won't be more
war aid organizations are also using the
Poes in fighting to deliver food water
and fuel into Gaza after weeks of
shortages back at the schooling KH Unice
and these children have been making the
most of the Peace
I'm so happy with the games and with
this truth there is no war and hopefully
the truce
continues but it looks like that truth
will be
shortlived and these children will soon
be back in a war
zone let's talk about Israel's next
steps with liutenant Colonel Peter
Lerner is is a spokesperson for the
Israeli uh military um Colonel if no
extension is agreed of the ceasefire
that is will we see the war resume full
force tomorrow morning and will it move
to the
South so what we need to take into
consideration is we are operating
currently on a day-to-day basis um our
primary goal currently is to bring home
the hostages to rescue the hostages and
that is why we are holding our fire we
are maintaining our defensive positions
in Northern Gaza Strip indeed in uh
preparing our offensive plan for the
next stages uh but we are currently
holding our fire in order to bring home
the hostages that were abducted um by
Hamas on the 7th of October from our
perspective uh we have to be uh ready
for the engagement of Hamas wherever
they are hiding indeed we have still not
completed our efforts in Northern Gaza
Strip uh but we've noticed and we have
seen that Hamas over the last few days
have also continued to operate in the
South so there is a a huge challenge
here from our perspective we are making
the necessary preparations but we are
currently focused on bringing the
hostages home but you're saying that the
south of Gaza is not off limits for you
but you've told the civilian population
from the north to seek shelter there how
does that go
together what I'm saying is that we are
currently focused on rescuing the
hostages hostages that were abducted
from on the 7th of October by Hamas and
taken to all different types of
locations in the Gaza Strip and so we
are currently focused on bringing them
home and making sure that they get home
and in the meantime taking our taking
the time in order to be prepared for
operations in order to defend our
positions where they are yesterday Hamas
engaged and detonated three explosive
devices against IDF forces in the north
and indeed there is still a a extensive
Hamas presence operating in Northern
Gaza Strip we have still not completed
our mission there we will take the war
to Hamas wherever they are hiding
in order to achieve our goal Hamas needs
to be dismantled Hamas is holding
Israel's H hostage is holding foreign
National hostage it's also holding the
people of Gaza hostage now the US have
warned that a different type of military
campaign is needed for a densely
populated area like the Gaza Strip could
you not take that into account or is
pushing with full force into the south
of Gaza uh an
option indeed we have very attentive to
our ally allies and what they are
telling us especially the us but also
the UK and the Germans and and and we
are very attentive to those
considerations and of course we will
operate in a way that is in accordance
to International humanitarian law the
laws of armed conflict in order to
distinguish between combatants and
civilians in order to disting
distinguish between those that are
perpetrating Terror in order to
distinguish between those that conducted
the ruthless merciless attack on on the
7th of October and the distinguish
between them and the civilians indeed it
is a huge challenge for any military
operating in an urban environment we've
seen where Hamas is operating from from
inside hospitals from adjacent to un
facilities from inside schools from
inside mosques there is nothing that
they will not abuse and this is the
challenge that we are facing so you say
you're differentiating but a bomb drop
from an um from an airplane is not very
good at differentiating between
combatants and civilians is
it bomb is not dropped sir a bomb is
targeting a specific location with a
specific Target in mind uh this is the
reality of modern-day Warfare when a
terrorist organization hides in a urban
center hides abuses the urban Arena
hides and intentionally puts the
civilians at risk what we are doing
especially for instance when we're
calling people to evacuate a spe
specific area is calling on them to
evacuate for their own well-being in
order to get them out of Harm's Way
while Hamas is intentionally operating
in order to keep them In Harm's Way that
is the difference between us and them
now let's turn to the hostages that have
been released what have you learned from
them uh with regard to the conditions
they've been kept in and also about
Hamas
itself we are seeing and up to date up
till today we have of course experienced
a huge sense of concern every single day
Israelis are glued to the television's
watching seeing um in a state of anxiety
and concern of who is going to be
released
today in the last 6 days 81 Israelis and
foreign Nationals have been released uh
61 Israelis uh women and children um 20
foreign Nationals mostly Thai uh
Nationals but also Filipinos um and
indeed we are learning both of the
conditions the dire conditions the state
constant state of fear of uh
threat of violence that was surrounded
by them by their Hamas captors um so
indeed we are learning and we are
hearing some very very heartbreaking
stories about the terms that they were
being kept um this is this is how Hamas
operates you know we are very concerned
for the remaining hostages that are
currently being held by Hamas uh they
need to come home we've demanded that
the international Committee of the cross
have access to them in order to assess
their well-being it is Hamas that are
responsible for the well-being that's an
point you say it's Hamas and we're
joined Now by TK yarich uh spokesperson
for the World Health Organization in
Geneva Mr yarich thank you so much for
your time your organization has said
that more people in Gaza could be uh
more at risk of dying from disease than
from bombs can you tell us how serious
is the threat to People's Health Health
in Gaza right
now well the threat is very serious
right now because what we have is a 1.8
million people in Gaza who had to leave
their home many of them are in a
overcrowded
shelters uh and uh with temperatures uh
dropping down and with a lack of access
to clean water uh and lack of Sanitation
obviously that all elements increase the
risk of rest respiratory diseases of
waterbor diseases of skin diseases we
had teams in Gaza last week and uh uh
they they said that for example uh in
these shelters there is a one shower for
4,000 people there is a one toilet for
more than 200 people so in these
conditions on top of people who already
have chronic conditions uh diabetes
hypertension people who need uh their
medicines and they cannot access so all
these elements uh will likely increase
uh mortality and then uh if there are
military operations resuming that will
lead to more uh to more loss of lives
for sure you've made very clear the The
Unbelievable challenges being faced by
people there the overcrowding in
hospitals the shelters that are full the
lack of clean water to what extent is
your staff even able to detect any
serious disease outbreaks let alone
prevent them I mean what can be done in
a situation like
this well the the surveillance system
disease surveillance system uh has been
functioning in Gaza before the conflict
now obviously with people on the Move uh
with many Health Centers two3 of health
centers are not functioning anymore two3
of hospitals uh are not functioning or
just functioning in a limited way
obviously there is a challenges to to
this disease surveillance uh we are
working uh with with the UN agency uh
for for Palestinians with the
Palestinian red Cresent and with the
Ministry of Health in Gaza to try to get
a get a picture but again what we really
need is full access for humanitarian Aid
including medical supplies as we have
just heard uh from uh from your
correspondent uh what we also need
really is is this uh this temporary
truce to become a ceasefire because as
long as As as there is a uh military
operation going on uh uh there will be
more Devastation uh and more more
suffering so the the the peace is really
the only solution uh to bring back the
health services to everyone are some of
the the injured and the sick still being
transported to uh Egypt to get care
there well there there have been a a
number of patients that have been uh uh
transferred to to Egypt uh our teams
helped uh transfer patients from
hospitals in North Gaza that that were
unable to continue to provide services
to hospitals in in south of Gaza but
those hospitals are already full and
again with the number of injuries and
with the with the number of people who
uh need medical care there are 50,000
pregnant women in Gaza and they need uh
access to uh to to health services so
all these people really rely on
hospitals working so it's it's not about
uh uh uh uh getting out uh some people
it's really trying to make sure that
hospitals that exist are repaired and
are stuffed and equipped to provide
those services to everyone who needs can
I ask you what preparations your staff
are making what will be possible if this
truce is not extended
again well what we will see we will see
more destruction we will see more
casualties we will see more suffering
and and and really humanly it's
difficult to to to to to to accept that
what we can do as a humanitarians is
really calling on everyone to to stop
this uh and what we can do a little bit
is that uh uh we bring medical supplies
to Egypt and then when we are allowed to
get it in uh but we we may bring as as
much supplies as we want if if if there
is no peace uh uh the the the the life
uh the lives will continue to be lost t
with the World Health Organization in
Geneva thank you so much for your time
today thank
you Asha benera is the Haru chair for
the study of child maltreatment and
joins us now from Jerusalem uh welcome
to DW really appreciate your time today
it's been 5 days now since the first
hostages were released what what do we
know about what Emily who we just saw
and and the others uh went through and
and and how they were
treated well we know that they went for
hell basically and different H it wasn't
the same for everybody some of them were
kept together with the parents and they
went for hell and some of them were kept
alone and we went through hell and some
were kept with their friends or other
child kids and still went for through H
it was different for the experience was
different for different kids uh the
traum is slightly different for
different kids but the major component
of the trauma was the same for everybody
that's the total lot of control over
their life and be it a child or an adult
when you lose control over your life
then you are in trauma and in major
to can you tell us um a little bit more
specifically about how this kind of
trauma that you're describing how it
affects children and their behavior
especially as you just said said some
didn't have a parent by their
side yes well it it affects them in in
different aspects first of all in the
way they talk they're afraid to talk
some of them they whisper I think
Emily's father said in the one of the
news interviews that he couldn't hear
her he had to put his ear by her mouth
because she was trained in 53 days or 52
days to speak very silently or to
whisper so that's one aspect and that's
a physic aspect the other aspect is that
even if in the first day they walk and
they laugh and they run then in the week
after and the weeks after things are
starting to surface and then kids could
wake up some of them are waking up at
night with nightmare some of them are
waking up and shouting some of them are
doing other things that they stop doing
like
whatever could I don't want to go into
private specific examples right now the
release of of these hostages has
understandably created a lot of media
interest but is enough being done at the
moment to protect the children um and
ensure that they can recover in a in a
protected and safe
environment yes I think that there is
one thing needs to be said that the
Israeli government in the particular
case of the kidnapped children and the
kidnapped citizen has done a very good
job in preparing for their coming back
home we were approached by the Ministry
of Social Services two or three days
after the massacre of October 7 and
we've been working on developing a
protocol on how to treat our children
for at least three weeks and the
protocol was approved and ready two or
three weeks before they came back so we
we are prepared does it mean that all of
them will ER flourish and won't develop
a post-traumatic stress syndrome no does
it mean that all of them will develop a
post-traumatic stress syndrome
definitely not most of them and
hopefully all of them will go for the
trauma period will flourish and survive
and even if they will have a scull or in
the metal scar forever they will have a
very good life in the future so just to
ask you more specifically about these
preparations that have been made I mean
presumably you know the the first thing
is just love and hugs from their family
but but what specifically what what kind
of professional support are you talking
about providing these children with
now okay I will tell you first of all
that some of the some of the things are
not so evident for example we passed in
the protocol it's written that nobody
would tell the kids what happened with
their parents until they will meet a
family member and a professional because
the first people they meet Are Soldiers
or other people you know who are doing
administrative job of get receiving them
from the Egyptians and moving them to
Israel and so on and we made sure that
nobody who is not qualified for won't be
the barer of bad news some of the kids
came and they didn't know that their
mother was murdered in October 7th so
that's one thing second thing is really
to regain control over their life so our
protocol basically
says the kids decide if they want to
meet their aunt or if they want to meet
their friend or if they want to meet
their dog they need to decide it's very
important that you would ask them we
also gave a advice not to hug them
before asking them if it's okay to hug
them it's not for the family members but
the professionals who are working with
them so it was very important to let
them regain control over their life
that's the most important thing that we
are doing right now each one of them has
a devoted social worker that works only
with him and the family and he's also
the coordinator of all the other
professionals who are working and we
each one of them is receiving a a
psychotherapist a psychologist or a
clinical social worker who would work
with him and his parents and he was
trained all of them were trained
specifically for working with those
families Asha benia head of the har
Institute thank you so much for your
time and for those really fascinating
insights thank you for your time
another two Thai hostages held for weeks
by Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip
were released last night they were met
at a Tel Aviv hospital by Thailand's
foreign minister ppri bahid nukara who
flew to Israel earlier this week there
was an emotional reunion with a group of
15 other Thai compatriots who were
released by Hamas earlier it's thought
more than a dozen ties still remain
hostage in Gaza here's what Thailand's
foreign minister had to
say I'm happy all of you came out safely
and that you are
healthy apart from some knee and ear
injuries you are not seriously
hurt I think this team is very ready to
return to
Thailand